xviii ιΝτιιοουοτιοΝ.
developed. and displayed in full operation. This circumstance
of itself appears to determine that the composition of his trea-

tise on Arithmetic is prior in date both to the invention of the

Logarithms and of the Rhabdologia.

lt is very probable that Napier’s progreSS, in composing
a complete digest of NumberS, might have been interrupted‚
and that work set aside for the time, in consequence of those
very operations having suggested his more profound inven-
tions ς but that he composed his Arithmetic and Algebra sub-
sequently to those inventions is most improbable, considering
that the dates of his published works are 1614 and 1617, and
that h‘e died in the month of April of the latter year. More-
0ver. it appears that, at the time of his death, Napier was
occupied in bringing to perfection his most elaborate and
beautiful work, the “ Constructio Logarithmorum 3⁹⁹ which
treatise‚ although it did not see the light until two years
after his death, when it was edited by his son Robert, he had
left in a state for publication. This volume, with some pro-
found and original aids to the science of trigonometry added
as a supplement to it, must have occupied all the *time which
he devoted to mathematice, (for he was still deeply engaged
with the Apocalypse‚) between the date of the publication of
the Canon of Logarithms and the date of his death. The

