INTRODUCTION. xxxvii

‘⁶ But the chief cause that impeded my progress this year,
in framing the Rudolphine TableS, was an entirely new, but
happy calamity, which has befallen a part of the 'Tables I had
long ago eompleted. I mean, most illustrious Baron, that
book of thine, which, published at Edjnburgh in Sootland five
years ago, I first saw at Prague the year before last. At that
time I had not leisure to study it3 'but last year, having met
with a little book by Benjamin Ursin (long my familiar, and
now astronomer to the Margrave), wherein he briefly gives the
marrow of the matter, extraoted from your own work, I was

awakened to its merits. Searcely, indeed, had I made trial of
it, in a single example, when I became aware, to my great

delight, that you had generalized a certain play of NumberS,
whioh I myself, in a very minute degree, had practically
adopted for many years, and had proposed to incorporate with
my Tables 3 especially in the matter of parallaxeS, and in the
minutes of duration and delay in eclipses3 of which method
this very Ephemeris exhibits an example. I knew, indeed, that
this method of mine was only applicable ‘in the single ease of
an aro differing in no sensible degree from a straight line.
But of this I was ignorant, that, from the exeesses of the
secantS, LooAm'rHMs could be generated, thus rendering the
method 'universal throughout any extent of aro. Then indeed

my mind, above all things, was eager to ascertain, whether,

