xx INTRODUCTION.

·⁶ Seeing that the calculation of this table, which ought to
have been perfected by the labour and pains of many calcula-
tors, 1188 been accomplished by that of one alone, it will not
be surprising if many errors have crept into it. I beseech
you, benevolent readerS, pardon these, whether occasioned by
the weariness of calculation‚ or an oversight of the press 3 for
88 for myself‚ the infirm state of my health, and weightier
occupatione, have prevented my adding the last finish. But
if Ι shall understand that the use of this invention proves
acceptable to the learned, I may, perhaps, in a short time
(God willing) publish the philosophy of it, and the method
either of amending this Canon, or of constructing a new one
upon ‘a more convenient plan3 that thus, through the dili-
gence of many calculatorS‚ a Canon, more highly finished and
accurate than the labour of a single individual could accom-

plish‚ may at length see the light. Nothing is perfect at its
birth.’'

Yet the work had been long and intensely laboured‚ and
881118 from his hands nearly perfect. No sooner had KEPLER
perused it, than he addressed his enthusiastic letter to this
·· most illustrious Baron‚'’ 88 118 88118 him,—the mysterious
bennit of the sciences, whose startling appeal to the great
continental astronomerS‚ issuing from the terra incognita of

